Title: Building a Cohesive Team
Excerpt: University of Florida
Date: 2013-10-29


Graduate Student Research Day, University of Florida, October 29nd, 2013


Team building panel I organized and moderated at UF's Graduate Student Research 
Day, sponsored by [I-Cubed](http://i3.institutes.ufl.edu/). Details can be found 
[here](http://i3.institutes.ufl.edu/graduate-student-advisory-council/events/2013-graduate-student-research-day-schedule/building-a-cohesive-team-2013-graduate-research-day/), 
and are copied below:


### Abstract
Students must learn to work in teams during their graduate student careers, and 
upon graduation, often are expected to build and lead their own teams. Building 
teams that are cohesive and work together to efficiently achieve their goals can 
be difficult. In this session, a panel with an extensive background in 
leadership roles and team management discusses insights learned from their 
experiences and is available to answer pressing graduate student questions.

### Moderator
Cheyne Homberger is a fifth year PhD student in mathematics. He has been 
actively involved in mentoring during his time at UF, working to establish the 
graduate student mentoring award, and a math department mentoring program for 
incoming graduate students. He has worked with I-Cubed for three years, serving 
as Co-Chair from January 2012 to February of 2013.

### Speakers
Wendy-Lin Bartels

Wendy-Lin Bartels is an Assistant Research Scientist with the Florida Climate 
Institute and the Southeast Climate Consortium at the University of Florida.  
Her research assesses the conditions and mechanisms that facilitate 
collaboration among diverse stakeholders.  Specifically, she examines 
interactions among scholars and practitioners (such as farmers, water managers 
and foresters) for the co-development of relevant climate information to support 
decision making. Wendy-Lin is currently exploring the value of learning networks 
as venues for iterative dialog around adaptive responses to changes in climate. 
Wendy-Lin is also collaborating with Brazilian partner universities and NGOs to 
deliver leadership training field courses through her affiliation with the 
Amazon Conservation Leadership Institute (ACLI).  Courses build skills in 
collaborative process management and use experiential learning methods and team 
work to cultivate greater understanding of the diversity among actors that 
constitute frontier landscapes in the Amazon.  Wendy-Lin graduated from UF with 
a PhD in interdisciplinary ecology and a Master’s in science communication.  She 
is a native South African and holds a Bachelor of Science in botany and 
molecular genetics from Stellenbosch University.

### Jonathan Dain

Jonathan Dain is Curriculum Director for the Florida Natural Resources 
Leadership Institute (NRLI), a UF/IFAS Extension program focused on 
collaborative approaches to managing contentious natural resource issues.  The 
mission of NRLI is to create a state-wide network of natural resource 
professionals trained in conflict management and participatory approaches to 
decision-making. He is also a Lecturer at UF’s Center for Latin American Studies 
where he serves as a core faculty member in both the Tropical Conservation and 
Development (TCD) and the Masters of Sustainable Development Practice (MDP) 
programs.  Jon teaches graduate classes in conflict management, facilitation, 
leadership and communication skills.  An applied anthropologist by training and 
a certified mediator, he began his career almost 30 years ago as a Peace Corps 
Volunteer in Paraguay.  He continues to work in Latin America with a focus on 
Brazil and more recently, Mexico.

### Lieutenant General (LTG) F. L. Hagenbeck

Lieutenant General (LTG) F. L. Hagenbeck is President of his own consulting firm 
based in Jacksonville, Florida. He serves as an expert on leadership and 
national security issues. LTG Hagenbeck graduated and was commissioned as a 
second lieutenant from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He holds a 
Master of Science degree from Florida State University, as well as a Masters of 
Business Administration from Long Island University. He also attended the 
Maxwell School National Security Program at Syracuse University. His military 
education includes the Army War College, Army Command and General Staff College, 
and the Infantry Officer Advanced Course. LTG Hagenbeck served our Army for over 
39 years culminating as the 57th Superintendent of the U. S. Military Academy. 
He commanded at every level from company through division including as the 
Commanding General of the 10th Mountain Division. He also served in the 25th 
Infantry Division, 82d Airborne Division, 101st Airborne Division, and Training 
and Doctrine Command. LTG Hagenbeck served as the Army’s Deputy Chief of Staff 
for Personnel as well as numerous other staff positions. He also served in 
several Joint assignments, including Exchange Officer to the Royal Australian 
Infantry Center; Strategic Plans and Policy directorate (J5) and Deputy Director 
for Current Operations, J33, Joint Staff.

LTG Hagenbeck led the first conventional forces into Afghanistan in the fall of 
2001 as the Commander of Coalition Joint Task Force Mountain. He was the senior 
commander in Afghanistan during the initial defeat of the Taliban; and in March 
2002 commanded Operation Anaconda, the largest conventional battle since the end 
of the Vietnam War. He has received numerous awards and decorations including 
two Distinguished Service Medals.

LTG Hagenbeck is a board member on Bite Technology and on the non-profit 
National Organization on Disability. He is the Director of the Engineering 
Leadership Institute, College of Engineering, University of Florida and is on 
the Board of Governors for the College of Human Sciences at Florida State 
University. He also advises several multi-national corporations and is a member 
of The Elbe Group, sponsored by the Belfer Center at Harvard’s Kennedy Center 
which is focused on nuclear counterterrorism. And he is one of 12 leaders 
featured in Gary Burnison’s book, No Fear of Failure – Real Stories of How 
Leaders Deal with Risk and Change, and is profiled in the book, West Point 
Leadership: Profiles of Courage.

